Add CSS `@custom-media` at-rule (#35755)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/@custom-media/index.md

---
title: "@custom-media"
slug: Web/CSS/@custom-media
page-type: css-at-rule
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: css.at-rules.custom-media
---

{{CSSRef}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`@custom-media`** CSS [at-rule](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/At-rule) defines aliases for long and complex [media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries). Instead of using hardcoded {{CSSxRef("@media")}} values, in multiple CSS files, declare custom media query in a single location and use theme everywhere.

## Syntax

```css
@custom-media --media-query-name (max-width: 1200px);
@custom-media --media-query-name (max-width: 1200px), (orientation: portrait);
```

### Values

- `<extension-name>`

>   - : A name identifying the custom media.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A [`<dashed-ident>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/dashed-ident); the name identifying the custom media.
```

> - `<media-query-list>`

Author: No problem, but lit's not wait for the other PR. When https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36171 is merged, we will update this article.

> - `<media-query-list>`

Reviewer: merged!

> - `<media-query-list>`

Author: @estelle I adde a link in the row bellow. Is it ok?

  - : A comma-separated list of `<media-query>` values.

## Description

When designing documents that use media queries, the {{CSSxRef("@media")}} may be used in multiple places. Repeating the same media query values multiple times is an editing hazard; developers making a change must edit every copy in the same way, or suffer from difficult-to-find bugs in their CSS.

To help ameliorate this, the custom media queries at-rule defines named aliases for long and complex media queries. In this way, a media query used in multiple places can instead be assigned to a custom media query, which can be used everywhere, and editing the media query requires touching only one line of code.

> A `@custom-media` rule can refer to other custom media queries. However, loops are forbidden, and a custom media query must not be defined in terms of itself or of another custom media query that directly or indirectly refers to it. Any attempt to define a custom media query with a circular dependency will cause all the custom media queries in the loop to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `@custom-media` rule can refer to other custom media queries and include the alias name within the feature list. However, ensure the custom media query is not defined in terms of itself or of another custom media query that directly or indirectly refers to it as loops are not valid. Any attempt to define a custom media query with a circular dependency will cause all the custom media queries in the loop to fail.
```
translate the spec, don't copy it. I tried making this more understandable but my suggestion can use a bit more work

If multiple `@custom-media` rules declare the same name, the truth value is based on the last one alone, ignoring all previous declarations of the same name.

## Formal syntax

{{csssyntax}}

## Examples

### Updating multiple responsive breakpoints

The `@custom-media` at-rule is used on responsive websites which use a particular breakpoint in several places:

```css
@custom-media --narrow-window (max-width: 32em);

@media (--narrow-window) {
}

@media (--narrow-window) and (hover) {
}

@media (--narrow-window) and (orientation: portrait) {
}
```

> By changing one line of code, all media queries using this custom media query alies in all CSS files are updated accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the breakpoint changes, by changing one line of code, a single media feature value, all media queries using this custom media query alias in all CSS files are updated accordingly.
```

### Grouping multiple responsive breakpoints

The `@custom-media` at-rule is used to set multiple breakpoints in a single place:

```css
@custom-media --mobile-screen (max-width: 480px);
@custom-media --tablet-screen (max-width: 768px);
@custom-media --laptop-screen (max-width: 1024px);
@custom-media --desktop-screen (max-width: 1440px);
@custom-media --widescreen (min-width: 1441px);
```

By grouping all the breakpoints in a single location, it's easier to control the responsive design.

### Complex breakpoints with a list of queries

The custom media query is evaluated logically. For instance, the following code snippet:

```css

> @custom-media --modern (color), (hover);

Reviewer: is this valid?

```css
@custom-media --modern ((color), (hover));
```
should we add a line recommending doing that instead since

```css
@media (((color) or (hover))) and (width > 1024px) {
}
```
is valid but

```css
@media (color) or (hover) and (width > 1024px) {
}
```
is not?

Author: This example is from the spec - https://drafts.csswg.org/mediaqueries-5/#example-532b0adb

We can add addition recommendations, but let's not change the spec recommendations.

@media (--modern) and (width > 1024px) {
}
```

Is equivalent to:

```css
@media ((color) or (hover)) and (width > 1024px) {
}
```

The following would be incorrect:

> ```css

Reviewer: and invalid class

Author: same as above, the example copied from the spec.

@media (color), (hover) and (width > 1024px) {
}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## Browser compatibility

{{Compat}}

## See also

- {{CSSxRef("@media")}}
- {{CSSxRef("@import")}}
- [Responsive design](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/CSS_layout/Responsive_Design)

> - [CSS media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [CSS media queries](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_media_queries) module
```
